docs/projects/8basehome/projects/projects-index.md, before:

---
id: 'projects-index'
sidebar_label: 'Projects'
slug: '/8basehome/projects'
---
# Projects
Projects are the container or workspace where you can develop and manage your applications. This section explains the differnet elements of your projects. 

This section contains:

- [Creating a New Project](creating-projects.md): Learn how to create your first Backend-Only or Full-Stack project.
- [Project Dashboard Walkthrough](projects-dashboard-walkthrough.md): Learn about different parts of the Project Dashboard, where you can find information about your quotas, team members, payment plans, frontends, and backends. 
- [Backend](projects-backend-ui.md): Learn about the Backend details page.
- [Frontend](projects-frontend-ui.md): Learn about the Frontend details page.
- [Project Team Management](projects-team-management.md): Learn about inviting and managing team members.
- [Project Billing](projects-billing.md): Learn how to view and manage your payment details and plans.
- [Settings](projects-settings.md): Learn about your project settings, such as name, description, and icon.

Commit message:

Removing mention of App Builder from helpsite.

docs/projects/8basehome/projects/projects-index.md, after:

---
id: 'projects-index'
sidebar_label: 'Projects'
slug: '/8basehome/projects'
---
# Projects

Projects are the container or workspace where you can develop and manage your work. All 8base projects are managed via the 8base Management Console, a secure web portal requiring an 8base account and a modern web browser. 

Projects benefit from scalable server-less GraphQL API, fully managed MySQL Database hosted on AWS. You can leverage additional services like authentication, authorization, and file storage, all supported by the 8base team and community. 

This section contains:

- [Creating a New Project](creating-projects.md): Learn how to create your first project.
- [Project Dashboard Walkthrough](projects-dashboard-walkthrough.md): Learn about different parts of the Project Dashboard, where you can find information about your quotas, team members, payment plans, and backends. 
- [Backend](projects-backend-ui.md): Learn about the Backend details page.
- [Project Team Management](projects-team-management.md): Learn about inviting and managing team members.
- [Project Billing](projects-billing.md): Learn how to view and manage your payment details and plans.
- [Settings](projects-settings.md): Learn about your project settings, such as name, description, and icon.
