---
id: 'app-components-other-components-table'
sidebar_label: 'Table'
redirect_from: '/frontend/app-components/other-components/table'
slug: '/projects/frontend/app-components/other-components/table'
---

# Table

The _Table_ component displays data in a table format on a page.

Adding a new *Table* component to your page creates a default set of columns. The columns are generated based on the array in the *Data* field on the *Properties* pane. 

Each object in the array represents a **row** in a *Table*, and the **properties** in the object represent the **columns** in a *Table*.

Each object's **id** property is a *primary key*, which is required for the column to display in a *Table*.

The following is an example of an object's appearance in a data array.

~~~ js 
{ 
"id": 1,
"lastName": "Snow",
"firstName": "Jon",
"age": 35,
"birthday": "1975-03-12",
"balance": 186 
}
~~~

You can modify your columns by editing the array in the Data field. Any changes made will not take effect until you click the "Auto Generate Columns" button, which deletes the old columns and creates your new columns.

If you scroll down in the *Properties* pane to the *Columns* section, you can see the list of columns that were autogenerated when you added the *Table* component to your page. 

Each column has its own properties that you can customize by clicking the *gear* icon to the right of the column name, which opens a *Settings* panel.

**Important Column Properties**

- Key - this is a code level name used for the column.
- Name - the column name that displays in the table.
- Format - this allows you to define the type of data in the column.
	- USD - currency symbol
	- URL link - a web link
	- Drop down - a drop down menu

&nbsp;

> [!NOTE] Example: How to render pictures in a Table
>  Let's create a small example to see how rendering images in a *Table* works.
>  
>  1. Drag a *Table* component onto a *Page* in your Frontend project.
>  2. Click the expand arrow on the *Data* field to open the code panel.
>  3. Delete all the objects in the array except for two.
>  4. Modify the objects so they have **id**, **gallery**, and **photo** columns.
>  5. Add a name for each **gallery** and a link for each **photo**.
>  6. Each object should look something like this: `{"id":1,"gallery":"Henry Art","photo":"https://henryart.org/_images/img/_largeImage/230331_henry_art_gallery_175.jpg"}`
>  7. Click "Auto Generate Columns" to delete the old columns and create new ones.
>  8. Scroll down to the *Columns* section in the *Properties* pane, and click the *gear* icon next to the Photo column name to open the *Settings* panel.
>  9. Click the "Add Render Cell" button and choose **Container** in the drop-down, which creates a container to hold your image within the column.
>  10. Close the pop-up window and *Settings* panel.
>  11. Click the arrow to the left of the table name in the *Properties* pane, which opens the *Components* pane.
>  12. Enter the word "image" in the *Search*  box and drag an *Image* component onto the *Container* within the Photo column.
>  13. The *Image* component should be selected in the table.
>  14. In the *Properties* pane, enter `{{item.photo}}` in the **Source** field. You should now see the images in the table.
>
> Under the *Container* is a *Looper* component that accesses each object's "photo" key in the array. The render cell option allows each "photo" to display as an image within the column.

&nbsp;

### Properties

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Default</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>data</td><td>array</td><td></td><td>Defines the data for the table in the format column name, column value. The array may use static or dynamic data, <b>must</b> have an id field for each array element, and the id <b>must</b> be lowercase. </td></tr>
<tr><td>autoGenerateColumns</td><td></td><td></td><td>The table will populate based on what is in the data field.</td></tr>
<tr><td>rowCount</td><td>integer</td><td></td><td>Specifies the total number of rows in the table.</td></tr>
<tr><td>loading</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, displays a loading animation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>columnsAddItem</td><td></td><td></td><td>Adds a new column to the table. (See column settings).</td></tr>
<tr><td>rowsPerPage</td><td>integer</td><td>5</td><td>Defines the number of table rows to display per page.</td></tr>
<tr><td>rowsPerPageOptions</td><td>array</td><td></td><td>Defines an array of options for the rows per page selection.</td></tr>
<tr><td>hideFooter</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, hides the footer at the bottom of the table.</td></tr>
<tr><td>hideFooterPagination</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, hides the pagination information in the footer.</td></tr>
<tr><td>hideFooterSelectedRowCount</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, hides the selected row counter in the footer.</td></tr>
<tr><td>checkboxSelection</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, adds a column of checkboxes to the table.</td></tr>
<tr><td>disableSelectionOnClick</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, disables clicking on a column to select it.</td></tr>
<tr><td>disableColumnSelector</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, disables access to the column selector to show or hide columns.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**Column Settings**
Clicking on the gear on the right-hand side of a column brings up the settings panel for the column.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Default</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>key</td><td>string</td><td></td><td>Specifies a unique key for the column.</td></tr>
<tr><td>name</td><td>string</td><td></td><td>Specifies a unique name for the column.</td></tr>
<tr><td>hide</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, hides the column in the table.</td></tr>
<tr><td>width</td><td>integer</td><td></td><td>Specifies the width of each cell in the column.</td></tr>
<tr><td>transform</td><td></td><td></td><td>Defines a transformation on the column.</td></tr>
<tr><td>addRenderCell</td><td>text<br/>link<br/>container<br/>node</td><td></td><td>Specifies the component to render the cell content.</td></tr>
<tr><td>format</td><td>text<br/>usd<br/>usd(cents)<br/>boolean<br/>date<br/>dateTime<br/>float<br/>integer<br/>percent<br/>url<br/>button<br/>checkbox<br/>datePicker<br/>dropDown<br/>modal<br/>object<br/>radioButton<br/>textInput<br/>string</td><td></td><td>Defines the data type in the column.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Style Attributes

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Default</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>showRightCellBorder</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, displays the right-hand border on all cells except those in the last column.</td></tr>
<tr><td>showColumnRightBorder</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>showTableBorder</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, displays the table border.</td></tr>
<tr><td>rowHeight</td><td>integer</td><td></td><td>Defines the height of the table rows.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Subcomponents

The _Table_ component has three possible subcomponents _Text_, _Link_, or _Container_ used to render the cell data within the table.

### Text

The _Text_ component creates a text value for another component.

For further details, see the *Text* component.

#### Properties

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Default</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>text</td><td>string</td><td></td><td>Specifies a text value for the multiselect item.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Link

The _Link_ component provides a link to either a document or a location.

For further details, see the *Link* component.

### Properties

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Default</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>text</td><td>string</td><td></td><td>Defines the text to use as a link.</td></tr>
<tr><td>absolute</td><td>bool</td><td>false</td><td>If true, enables the href and target properties and disables the to property.</td></tr>
<tr><td>to</td><td>string</td><td></td><td>Specifies the document to link to.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Container

Defines the margin and padding around a multiselect item.

For further details, see the *Container* component.
