docs/frontend/getting-started-introduction.md, before:

---
id: 'getting-started-introduction'
sidebar_label: 'Introduction'
slug: '/frontend/getting-started//introduction'
---

# App Builder Docs

Learn how developers and teams can build, deploy, and evolve full-stack web applications using App Builder. Create great UX/UI experiences for user-facing and internal applications using App Builder's drag-and-drop components, and connect to REST APIs, GraphQL APIs, and other data sources, all while using intuitive UI tools and JavaScript. 

## Getting to know App Builder

While App Builder abstracts most application development concepts that traditionally get handled using syntax, it still allows developers to write and run JavaScript. Developers can also manipulate and store data and trigger events and actions on application user interactions and different stages in the lifecycle, like routing. 

Here is an overview of all the sections you can start diving into to become an App Builder expert! 

1. [Getting Familiar with the Editor](./app-editor-introduction.md)
1. [Custom App Styling](./custom-app-styling-introduction.md)
1. [Responsive Design in App Builder](./responsive-design-in-app-builder-introduction.md)
1. (Application Layouts)[./application-layouts-introduction.md]
1. (App Navigation)[./app-navigation-introduction.md]
1. (App Components)[./README.md]
1. (Connecting to Data Sources)[./README.md]
1. (Data in the Frontend (State))[./README.md]
1. (Custom Frontend Logic)[./README.md]
1. (Triggering Events in the App)[./README.md]
1. (Authenticating App Users)[./README.md]
1. (Images and Files in App Builder)[./README.md]
1. (Publishing Apps)[./README.md]
1. (Global App Settings)[./README.md]

## Connect to ANY Data Source

App Builder lets developers connect directly to any REST and GraphQL API from their application. By creating an API Client (a.k.a, _Resource_), developers can make requests and receive responses in their applications.

(Learn more about Resources & Requests)[./README.md]

## Next Steps

Ready to get going? Check out our (Getting Started)[./README.md] to get up and running fast, or continue to learn more about App Builder in a deeper overview on the next page.

Commit message:

Getting started docs moved to staged status for 06-22-2022 due date.

docs/frontend/getting-started-introduction.md, after:

---
id: 'getting-started-introduction'
sidebar_label: 'Introduction'
slug: '/frontend/getting-started//introduction'
---

# App Builder Docs

Learn how developers and teams can build, deploy, and evolve full-stack web applications using App Builder. Create great UX/UI experiences for user-facing and internal applications using App Builder's drag-and-drop components, and connect to REST APIs, GraphQL APIs, and other data sources, all while using intuitive UI tools and JavaScript. 

_______

## Getting to know App Builder

While App Builder abstracts into interface most application development concepts that traditionally get handled using syntax, it still allows developers to write and run JavaScript code. Developers can also manipulate and store data and trigger events and actions on application user interactions and different stages in the application lifecycle, like routing. 

Here is an overview of all the sections you can start diving in to on your journey to becoming an App Builder expert! 

1. Getting Familiar with the Editor - **Docs coming soon...**
2. Custom App Styling - **Docs coming soon...**
3. Responsive Design in App Builder - **Docs coming soon...**
4. Application Layouts - **Docs coming soon...**
5. App Navigation - **Docs coming soon...**
6. App Components - **Docs coming soon...**
7. Connecting to Data Sources - **Docs coming soon...**
8. Data in the Frontend (State) - **Docs coming soon...**
9. Custom Frontend Logic - **Docs coming soon...**
10. Triggering Events in the App - **Docs coming soon...**
11. Authenticating App Users - **Docs coming soon...**
12. Images and Files in App Builder - **Docs coming soon...**
13. Publishing Apps - **Docs coming soon...**
14. Global App Settings - **Docs coming soon...**

## Next Steps

Ready to get going? Check out our Getting Started (Docs coming soon...) to get up and running fast, or continue to learn more about App Builder in a deeper overview on the next page.
