docs/projects/backend/backend-index.md, before:

---
id: 'backend-index'
sidebar_label: 'Backend Development'
slug: /backend
---
# Backend Development

**8base** is a Backend-as-a-Service. It lets front-end developers focus more on what they love and back-end developers expedite their workflow. 

When using 8base, your project benefits from having:

- A fully scalable server-less GraphQL API.
- A fully managed MySQL Database that's hosted on AWS ([Aurora MySQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/)).
- Ready-to-use app services (Authentication, Authorization, File Storage, and more)


This section provides information about 8base's backend and data capabilities:

- [Getting Started](getting-started-readme.md): Learn backend fundamentals such as application structure and workspaces.
- [Management Console](8base-console-readme.md): Learn how to manage backend resources, such as data models, roles and permissions, users, and API tokens,
- [GraphQL API Overview](8base-console-graphql-api-readme.md): Learn how all workspaces in 8base are assigned unique API endpoints. These endpoints handle GraphQL queries, mutations and subscriptions for every data table.
- [Custom Functions](custom-functions/custom-functions-readme.md): Learn about the four types of backend custom functions: resolvers, webhooks, triggers, and tasks.
- [Plugins and Integrations](8base-console-plugins-integrations-readme.md): Learn how to extend 8base using plugins and integrations.
- [Local Development Environment](development-tools-dev-readme.md): Learn about the local development environment, CLI, and JavaScript SDK.

Commit message:

New app permissions section, moving api

docs/projects/backend/backend-index.md, after:

---
id: 'backend-index'
sidebar_label: 'Backend Development'
slug: /backend
---
# Backend Development

**8base** is a Backend-as-a-Service. It lets front-end developers focus more on what they love and back-end developers expedite their workflow. 

When using 8base, your project benefits from having:

- A fully scalable server-less GraphQL API.
- A fully managed MySQL Database that's hosted on AWS ([Aurora MySQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/)).
- Ready-to-use app services (Authentication, Authorization, File Storage, and more)

The 8base Management Console is where you manage all backend resources, like Data Models, Roles and Permissions, Users, API Tokens, and more. It's a secure, easy-to-access and beautifully designed web portal that can be accessed from any computer, allowing teams to collaborate and build all types of applications.

To get started quickly with the 8base Management Console, all you'll need is [an 8base account](https://app.8base.com) and a web browser.


This section provides information about 8base's backend and data capabilities:

- [Getting Started](getting-started-readme.md): Learn backend fundamentals such as application structure and workspaces.
- [Management Console](8base-console-readme.md): Learn how to manage backend resources, such as data models, roles and permissions, users, and API tokens,
- [GraphQL API Overview](8base-console-graphql-api-readme.md): Learn how all workspaces in 8base are assigned unique API endpoints. The GraphQL API is generated automatically from the data model you define. These endpoints handle GraphQL queries, mutations and subscriptions for every data table. It comes with robust filters, sorting, pagination, full-text search and is secured using the role-based security.
- [Custom Functions](custom-functions/custom-functions-readme.md): Learn about the four types of backend custom functions: resolvers, webhooks, triggers, and tasks.
- [Plugins and Integrations](8base-console-plugins-integrations-readme.md): Learn how to extend 8base using plugins and integrations.
- [Local Development Environment](development-tools-dev-readme.md): Learn about the local development environment, CLI, and JavaScript SDK.
